# Companion User Guide for ACTUS Demonstrations

## Document purpose and overview

This document provides guidance to a user of the ACTUS demonstrations:

- Sample ACTUS contract cashflows – [https://demo.actusfrf.org](https://demo.actusfrf.org)

Software demonstrations should be self-explanatory and self-documenting but missing context, and “non-obvious” but required user actions can make exploration of the demo capabilities difficult and frustrating. This “companion” user guide aims to help the user through these obstacles. The demonstration software and in-demo documentation should and will eventually be updated to remove these problems. This user guide provides an immediate fix and documents the issues which should be addressed in improving the demos.

## Sample ACTUS Contract Cashflows Cemo: A companion user guide

This demo is started by pointing a browser at [https://demo.actusfrf.org](https://demo.actusfrf.org)

The purpose of this demonstration is to show the actual cashflows generated by ACTUS for different sample ACTUS contracts. The demonstration includes preloaded sample contracts which the user can call up, and then have ACTUS simulate. The user can edit the terms of the sample contracts and have the modified contracts simulated. All cashflows are illustrated with a plot showing the direction, type, and timing of payments. A list of the series of generated cash flow events is also displayed underneath the graphical plot in the output display for each contract simulation.

### Steps in working this demo:

1. Point a browser at [https://demo.actusfrf.org](https://demo.actusfrf.org) to start the demo.
   - This will bring up a list of contract types.
2. Select and click on the contract type name (e.g. ANN, PAM, etc.) of the particular contract type box for which you would like to run and display the results of ACTUS contract simulations.
   - This will bring up a display with:
     - A title bar labelled “DEMO CASE”
     - Underneath that, a bar with a short description of the contract type you selected
     - Underneath that, input areas for mandatory and optional terms of the contract
3. Click on the “DEMO CASE” title bar
   - This will trigger a display of available preloaded sample contracts each with its case name and a short text description of that sample contract.
     - BUT the above will only happen if the contract type you initially selected is in the set: { ANN, LAX, FXOUT, LAM, NAM, SWPPV, PAM, STK, SWAPS }
     - If you had initially selected an ACTUS contract type in the set: { CLM, CAPFL, CSH, COM, UMP }, the effect of clicking on the “DEMO CASE” title bar is to add some additional white space between that and the bar with the contract type description but to show no new content.
4. Assuming that your initial selection was for a contract type with sample contracts provided, you can now select and click on one of the sample contracts.
   - This will bring up a display of term values for the preloaded sample contact you selected.
     - The terms listed and sample values provided for them are described in the ACTUS data dictionary at [https://www.actusfrf.org/dictionary](https://www.actusfrf.org/dictionary)
     - For example ‘Contract Role’ is defined and RPA=Real Position Asset listed as one of its permitted values.
     - The fields listed as mandatory are fields which are required for all contract types. The Applicability matrix in the data dictionary specifies which fields are required for the particular contract type displayed.
     - To see all term values for the selected sample contract, you must click on and expand each of the optional term categories on the right side of the display.
       - For example the Maturity Date of an Annuity (ANN) contract is displayed by clicking on and expanding the ‘Notional Principal’ box of optional contract terms.
5. At this point you can edit any of the displayed contract terms to change the contract which will be simulated.
   - If invalid contract term values are inserted, this will cause an error when the contract is simulated. Permitted values for each contract term are listed in the ACTUS data dictionary.
     - For example: all dates must be in ISO format yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss
     - And ISO conventions are also used for the period. P1YL0 denotes a payment made once a year; P1ML0 denotes a monthly payment; P3ML0 denotes a quarterly payment.
6. The sample contract as currently edited can be sent to the ACTUS server for contract simulation by scrolling down to the bottom of the display and clicking on the ‘SEND’ button.
   - The returned display consists of (1) a graphical plot of the cash flow events, and (2) a listing of the sequence of cashflow events with all parameter values for each event.
   - In the graph: the x-axis is payment amount; the y-axis is time; principal and interest flows are in red and green respectively; the arrows on these cashflows indicate the direction of payment.
   - The event listing is a tabular display showing the attribute values for each cashflow event.
   - The event types are described in the git repo data dictionary at [https://github.com/actusfrf/actus-dictionary/blob/master/actus-dictionary-event.json](https://github.com/actusfrf/actus-dictionary/blob/master/actus-dictionary-event.json)
7. To return to the start of the demo from any display with the ACTUS logo in the top left, just click on the A of the ACTUS (overlaid with a grid of squares). This will bring up the opening display of the demo with a list of available contract types.

## Improvements which should be made to the current demo

The following improvements will be made to the demo to improve user-friendliness at some future time:

- Fix the text in the title block to say “Click here to select from available sample contracts” instead of the current rather unobvious “DEMO Cases”
- For the Contract types { CLM, CAPFL, CSH, COM, UMP } for which no preloaded sample contracts are available in the demo – we should do at least one of:
  - Have the result of clicking on the “DEMO CASE” title bar be to display the message “No sample contract is available for this contract type”
  - Remove these contract types from the list in the previous display
  - Provide samples for these contract types (with appropriately chosen simple market scenarios for the simulation)
